.TH SDLTIMER 1 "2026-06-08" "sdltimer 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sdltimer \- SDL3 countdown / count-up timer with 7-segment display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sdltimer
[\fIduration\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sdltimer
opens an SDL3 window with a 7-segment digital display.
.PP
If a duration is given the timer counts down from that value.
Without an argument it counts up from zero indefinitely.
.PP
The display shows HH:MM:SS when an hour or more remains,
otherwise MM:SS. The colon blinks once per second while
counting. Timer state is reflected in the window title.
.PP
While running the digit colour changes dynamically:
green when plenty of time remains, shifting through yellow
to red as the timer approaches zero. In count-up mode the
colour cycles through the same spectrum.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.BI duration
Countdown duration. Can be a plain number (seconds) or use
h/m/s suffixes. Without this argument the timer counts up.
.RS
.PP
Examples:
.RS
.nf
90      90 seconds
90s     90 seconds
5m      5 minutes
1h      1 hour
1h30m   1 hour 30 minutes
1h30m20s 1 hour 30 minutes 20 seconds
.RE
.RE
.SH CONTROLS
.TP
.B SPACE
Start or pause.
.TP
.B r
Reset to the initial state (duration or zero).
.TP
.B ESC
Quit.
.SH STATES
.TP
Running
Bright digits with dynamic colour, blinking colon.
.TP
Paused
Dim amber digits, colon stays on.
.TP
Finished
Flashes green on and off every 500 ms.  Window title says FINISHED!.
.SH BUILD
.B sdltimer
depends on SDL3 (>= 3.2) and clibx(self-contained header-only lib, lives in the project src). SDL3 should be discoverable
through pkg-config. Just run
.B make
at the project root.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/local/bin/sdltimer
The binary (after install).
.TP
.B /usr/local/share/man/man1/sdltimer.1
This man page.
.SH BUGS
The 7-segment renderer uses integer math for segment positions, but
SDL_FRect expects floats. On very small windows the segments may
look squished.
.PP
Report bugs to the author or just fix them yourself.
.SH AUTHOR
David Balishyan <davidbalishyan12@gmail.com>
